ah Tetris Alexey Pajitnov style matching
puzzle game introduced in 1984 will
likely go down in history as one of the
greatest games ever made for a variety
of reasons gameplay wise it only takes
about 30 seconds to learn yet is so
addictive that scientists have named an
entire cognitive phenomenon around it
technically speaking the game of tetris
is simple enough to port to almost any
digital device imaginable and the game's
design is so Universal that it has
enjoyed immense cross-cultural reach
becoming one of or the best-selling
video game in the world the rules
they're simple as various pieces dropped
from the top of the screen the player
attempts to stack them in a position to
create as many horizontal lines of
blocks as they can when a line is
completed it disappears and the blocks
above it move down a rank the objective
clear as many lines as possible scoring
as many points as you can before your
stack touches the top of the screen and
the game ends you probably already knew
all of that just like you probably
already know that most versions of
Tetris steadily increase the speed at
which pieces are dropped making the game
harder and harder as time goes on until
the playfield becomes so unmanageable
that you inevitably lose except what if
it wasn't inevitable what if it was
possible to play a game of Tetris
forever today you'll learn how here's
what you'll need first you'll need to
play the right version of Tetris
specifically a modern copy of the game
one that uses the now standard random
generator to create piece sequences uses
a piece a preview feature and uses the
hold feature a mechanic that allows you
to swap your current piece with the next
one up second you'll need the right kind
of player ie one that has an infinite
level of dexterity an infinite lifespan
and the ability to play the game for an
infinite amount of time so let's learn
the procedure an official Tetris play
field consists of a 10 by 40 grid only
10 by 20 of which is actually seen and
managed by the player the games pieces
consist of seven different shapes each
made of four blocks the T piece the Oh
piece s and z pieces J and L pieces and
the I piece each piece falls according
to a
random generator which produces a
sequence of all seven pieces randomly as
if they were drawn one by one from a bag
new bags are generated after these
pieces have been dealt if you get three
of the same piece in a row this is a
great sign that you are not using the
official standard Tetris random
generator older versions of the game and
unlicensed knockoffs sometimes use a
different system because the official
random generator ensures each bag
contains each of the seven pieces we can
construct a strategy using loopable
patterns here's how it works
divide the playfield into three sections
the left section contains the four left
columns the right section contains the
four right columns and the middle
section contains the two middle columns
each of these sections will be assigned
specific pieces the left section gets
the s Z and T pieces the right section
gets the LJ and O pieces the middle
section gets the I pieces there are five
specific loops we'll employ let's start
with the three main loops for our three
sections the left section starts with a
t piece at the base then two z pieces
and two s pieces next two T pieces
turned on their sides and from there
swap the positions of the two s and Z
pieces topping it all off with one final
T piece this pattern loops after four
bags the right section is a little
simpler if the O piece drops first use
it as the base if not use the L and J
pieces to create a basket and then dump
the o piece inside this pattern loops
after just a single bag the middle
section is the easiest of all position
the eye pieces vertically and drop them
in because each bag only contains a
single piece of each kind
this pattern loops after two bags these
are the three main loops since they have
cycles of four one and two bags
respectively after four bags have been
played the tops will all be flat but
there's a problem because the eye pieces
only stack eight blocks
up where
left with a surplus to compensate for
this we need to learn two additional
loops we'll call these the balancing
loops for use in the right and middle
sections the left section continues the
loop from before in the balancing loops
the right section will use the L and o
pieces side by side create a base like
this and then use the next pair of
pieces to square everything away
this pattern loops after two bags the
middle sections balancing loop will use
the I and J pieces rotate them
vertically and fill in the gap as with
the right section
this also loops after two bags when you
combine the three main loops learned
earlier with these two balancing loops
you'll eventually end up with something
like this this is what we'll call the
flip point at this phase of the
procedure flip the left sections loop
and the right sections loop so that the
s Z and T pieces are now used on the
right and the L o balancing loop is used
on the left meanwhile continue the IJ
balancing loop down the middle after
four bags the blocks have balanced and
the playfield has reset with a blank
field you can employ the whole procedure
over again and again and again
indefinitely
obviously not all pieces will fall in a
convenient order so using the piece
preview display to plan loops out and
employing the hold feature are key to
strategically arrange the right pieces
to fall at the right time to complete
the technique it's a little confusing to
learn but when used right you can use
this strategy to play a game of tetris
forever provided you have the patience
there are other play forever strategies
that have been developed for tetris over
time including a 5 bag solution
discovered in 2014 that is a far more
complicated to learn if you want to
study more on various techniques and
patterns you can check the documentation
in this video's description of course
regardless of the strategy you employ
the true challenge comes from keeping up
as the game speed steadily increases
just like in life
even if you figure out how to make all
the right moves it turns out the clock
will always win special thanks to this
video sponsor expressvpn if you're not
using a VPN yet you should Internet
service providers in the u.s. they can
legally sell your data to ad companies
and using an unencrypted internet
connection on your phone or computer
means you're sending out countless
pieces of information that can be seen
and intercepted without your knowing why
not put a stop to that by encrypting
your data and even going a step further
by hiding your location this is one of
the things I personally love about
expressvpn sometimes I need access to
information or media that is
region-locked expressvpn allows me to
reroute my connection to a server in a
country of my choice letting me get the
content I want when I want it if that
sounds like something you need I can
hook you up find out how you can get
three months of expressvpn free by
clicking the link in the description
check it out today